# Data Description
The objective of this project is to provide an analysis of how experiences and social identity shape marine and fisheries science related career decisions of individuals across career levels. We aim to answer the following research question: 
How does social identity and life experiences influence individuals from underrepresented populations decisions to pursue careers in marine and fisheries science professions?

Five types of data will be produced to answer our research question: 
1.	Demographic Information – Potential participants will be invited to complete an opt-in Qualtrics survey containing demographic questions. We will then reach out to those who opted-in and attempt to schedule an in-person or video interview. For participants that are interviewed, demographic data will be saved in a google spreadsheet that also includes information about the interview (date, location, duration), and quantitative data from the interview (agreement statements responses).

2.	Audio Interviews – All interviews will be recorded using a handheld voice recorder. Interviews will follow an interview schedule containing a series of open-ended questions about the participant’s career experiences, racial and ethnic identity, environmental identity, and marine and fisheries science related identity (8 agreement statements). Approximately 75 hours of audio will be produced.

3.	Video Interviews – When in-person interviews are not an option, Zoom will be used to conduct video interviews. Approximately 25 hours of video will be produced.

4.	Field Notes – Hardcopies of our interview schedule, and a field notebook, will be used to record notes and participants responses to a set of agreement statements about marine and fisheries science identity. These responses will be entered into our google spreadsheet for quantitative data analysis. Qualitative data will be obtained from the other parts of the interview. 

5.	Audio and Video Transcription Text Files – All interviews will be transcribed either manually by researchers or using a transcription service to produce text documents of the completed interviews. 

We expect that the amount of data produced will range between approximately 10 – 15 GB and will be influence by the size and quantity of the audio and video files produced.

# Roles and Responsibilities
Data produced in this project are a part of a graduate student’s dissertation research. The graduate student will serve as the project’s data manager and be responsible for implementing the data management plan and managing all data produced during the project. The graduate student’s major advisor, who also serves as the project’s PI, will provide guidance throughout the project. 

The project's data manager is responsible for collecting all data, data entry, and for ensuring that all data collection tools, including the Qualtrics demographic survey, Zoom video conferencing, and handheld audio recorders, are functioning properly and are secure. The data manager is responsible for getting all audio and video files transcribed. Once transcription is completed, the project's data manager will be responsible for reviewing transcripts to check for quality control and to remove any direct identifiers. 

The project's data manager will be responsible for data analysis. The PI or another graduate student will assist the data manager with data analysis as needed (e.g. intercoder reliability check). Both the PI and graduate student will be responsible for archiving and preserving datasets. The data manager will regularly back up data to an external hard drive managed by the project PI. If the data manager leaves the project, responsibility for management of the data will shift to the project’s PI, who will have access to all the data on the back up external hard drive.

# Data Standards and Metadata
The data collected for this project makes up one dataset, containing multiple types of data associated with a set of research interviews. No specific metadata standards will be used for the documentation of this research project, therefore we will generate a spreadsheet template that we will use to document each of the interviews. Each interview will have a row in the spreadsheet’s documentation file that will have information on the demographics associated with each interview, information about the interview, transcription information, and location and file name of relevant files. Audio and video recording with direct identifiers will be deleted once transcripts are edited to remove direct identifiers. Versions for the transcripts with direct identifiers will not be saved. This process will also be documented in the spreadsheet with columns related to transcript edits. There will also be a column with consent information. A readme sheet will also be included in the spreadsheet document, containing a description of each of the variables. The spreadsheet file will be saved as a .csv file.


# Storage and Security
The project's data manager is responsible for ensure that no one has unauthorized access to the data produced and that all data is password protected. All data will be saved in a minimum of 3 locations. All sensitive data collected online, will be save to the project manager's password protected Qualtrics account. All data will be added to a data spreadsheet, which will be saved in the project managers google drive, and on a password-protected computer. All audio and video files will be initially saved to a password-protected computer and to the project manager's google drive account prior to transcription. Once interviews have been transcribed, transcription files will be stored on a password protected computer and save to the project managers google drive account. Audio and video files will be destroyed after transcription and quality control checks are completed.

All data produced for this project, excluding the audio and vidio files, will be regularly backed up to a password-protected external hard drive managed by the project PI. It is the project data manager's responsibility to ensure that all data is regularly backed up to the PI's password-protected external hard drive. It is the project PI's responsibility to ensure that the external hard drive is secured and that no one has unauthorized access to the project's data. The external hard drive back up will also be used to use that data is not lost when the project manager graduates. The project's data manager will create a readme file that document to organization strategie of all the data (e.g. file names and file structure). Data will be retained for a minimum of 3 years by the projects PI.

We do not anticipate the need for multiple versions of the dataset. However, appropriate dates will be added to the end of any future versions of that data for version control. The data documentation spreadsheet and readme, described in the data standards and metadata section, file will be updated to track and reflect any changes.

# Access and Data Sharing
The data produced for this project involves human subjects, therefore public sharing of the data will be limited. As a part of this project’s IRB consent form, participants will be informed that their responses will be kept confidential and provided with specific examples of if, and how, their data will be used in future studies. Due to the confidentiality agreements raw data, including interview responses, for all participants will not be made available to the public. Participants will be notified during the interview that responses will be coded into themes and that direct quotes may be used in publications by the PI or graduate student researcher. However, all direct identifiers will be removed, and pseudonyms will be used. Audio files may be shared with university approved transcription organizations to assist with interview transcription. Once interview transcription is completed and checked, audio and video files will be deleted. Data sharing will occur internally between members of the research team. Only the projects manager will have access to the audio and video files, prior to transcription. Data will only be reused by the PI or graduate student researcher for purposes stated in the consent form.

# Archiving and Preservation
All data with indirect identifiers will be stored electronically for a minimum of three years post study termination, per IRB requirements. Once the student has left the university, all data will be transferred to the PI's password-protected external data storage device. The interview transcripts will be saved as .txt files. The previously mentioned data spreadsheet will be saved as a .csv file. All IRB related documents will be saved in PDF and .txt formats. Hard copies of the interview schedule, containing field notes, will be scanned and saved as .jpeg files.

